Resources
=========

A resource is the basic entity in the Representational state transfer protocol.
Every resources is associated in a one to one relation with an url. Some of the
urls may make use of parameters. Even though that each parameter defines a new
url by HTTP standards, the user should think of a resource in terms of the base
url and not its parameters. The documentation for the Madek API is organized
in this way where every base url has its own document that describes the
returned properties and the possible request parameters. 

Common and shared properties
----------------------------  

Some properties returned by the API are similar and im some sense equivalent
for many resources. They are identified by a common name and described here. 


### `created_at` 

Refers to the date and time when the resource was created. The value is
of **type string** and it is formated according to the [iso8601][]
standard.

  [iso8601]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601

### `updated_at` 

Refers to the date and time when the resource was last modified. The value is
of **type string** and it is formated according to the [iso8601][] standard.

### `id` or `name`

A identifier that uniquely distinguishes a resources among those of the same
kind. It is usually a representation of the underlying primary key in the Madek
database. The **type** is always a **string**. Most ids in Madek are 
[UUIDs][] according to the version 4 of the standard. 

  [UUIDs]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier

As of early 2014 every id in Madek  is always a **string**. Before that it
could have been either a **string** or **integer**. So, the "old API" might have
returned mixed types.

### `content_type`

A value of **type string**. Some resources contain links to arbitrary data. The
content_type is equal to the content_type header that is send when this data is
requested. See also [media types in the w3 standard][] and [internet media type
at wikipedia][].

  [media types in the w3 standard]: http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec3.html#sec3.7
  [internet media type at wikipedia]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_media_type

### `media_type`

A value of **type string**. This value is usually derived from the
content\_type. It ignores the sub type. However, it is not an equivalent
mapping of the type, see the definition of `self.media_type` in the
[media file model][] for example.

The `media_type` exists primarily for convenient filtering by parameters.

  [media file model]: https://github.com/zhdk/madek/blob/master/app/models/media_file.rb#L361


General notes to request parameters
-----------------------------------

The Madek API uses request parameters e.g. for filtering purposes. Internet
standards specify a _searchpart_ of a url and also mention parameters in form
of key-value pairs (see <http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-3.4>). More
complex structures and also arbitrary values are not defined by agreed
standards. 

The Madek API strives to use only simple key-value pairs which are not
ambiguous in this sense. When in doubt one can refer to the
[documentation](http://rubyonrails.org/documentation) of the underlying _Ruby
on Rails_ framework.
